README.md, before:

## Problem

In the fictional city of Verspaetung, public transport is notoriously unreliable. To tackle the problem, the city council has decided to make the public transport timetables and delay information public, opening up opportunities for innovative use cases.
You are given the task to make use of that information and write an API that offers information on the public transport system of Verspaetung.
As a side note, the city of Verspaetung has been built on a strict grid, so all location information can be assumed to be from a cartesian coordinate system.

## Data

- Four csv files with timetable information of the public transport system
  - `lines.csv` which lists a public transport line with its id and a name
  - `stops.csv` which lists stops with an id and their coordinates
  - `stop_times.csv` which lists a stop id, a line id and a timestamp in the format of HH:MM:SS . For simplicity this timestamp is both departure and arrival time at a stop delays.csv which lists a line name and a delay in minutes. This data is static for now and assumed to be valid for any time of the day

## Task

Write a service exposing an API that provides the following endpoints:

- `lines`
  - `GET` request with the following parameters
  - `timestamp` : example value "10:00:00"
  - `x` : example value 10 (a coordinate)
  - `y` : example value 12 (a coordinate)
  - returning the current lines at the requested position
- `lines/<name>`
  - `GET` request answering the question of whether or not the given line is delayed at the moment

The service should run on port `8081`

# Solution

## Notes

For brevity reasons, following decisions have been made while most production ready alternatives have been listed down as well.

- CSVs are being used as persistence layer, while in production this must be replace with SQL/NoSQL layer to allow for better performance and data management
- As far as the spec is concerned, nears stop wasn't required. However can be calculated just as easily using distance formula

## Getting start

### Run on Docker

#### Prerequisites

- Docker >= v17.3.1

```
# run dev container in background, remove -d to run in foreground
docker-compose up -d transport-app-dev

# run prod container in background, remove -d to run in foreground
docker-compose up -d transport-app-prod

# stop container running in background
docker-compose stop <name>
```

### Run locally

#### Prerequisites

- Node >= v8.x.x
- Yarn >= v1.5.0 or NPM >= 5.x.x

```
# clone repo

git clone https://github.com/sarmadsaleem/bcgdv-transport-app

# install dependencies

yarn

# run app

node app.js

# run tests

yarn test
```

Commit message:

Add tests info in README

README.md, after:

# Problem

In the fictional city of Verspaetung, public transport is notoriously unreliable. To tackle the problem, the city council has decided to make the public transport timetables and delay information public, opening up opportunities for innovative use cases.
You are given the task to make use of that information and write an API that offers information on the public transport system of Verspaetung.
As a side note, the city of Verspaetung has been built on a strict grid, so all location information can be assumed to be from a cartesian coordinate system.

## Data

- Four csv files with timetable information of the public transport system
  - `lines.csv` which lists a public transport line with its id and a name
  - `stops.csv` which lists stops with an id and their coordinates
  - `stop_times.csv` which lists a stop id, a line id and a timestamp in the format of HH:MM:SS . For simplicity this timestamp is both departure and arrival time at a stop delays.csv which lists a line name and a delay in minutes. This data is static for now and assumed to be valid for any time of the day

## Task

Write a service exposing an API that provides the following endpoints:

- `lines`
  - `GET` request with the following parameters
  - `timestamp` : example value "10:00:00"
  - `x` : example value 10 (a coordinate)
  - `y` : example value 12 (a coordinate)
  - returning the current lines at the requested position
- `lines/<name>`
  - `GET` request answering the question of whether or not the given line is delayed at the moment

The service should run on port `8081`

# Solution

## Notes

For brevity reasons, following decisions have been made while most production ready alternatives have been listed down as well.

- CSVs are being used as persistence layer, while in production this must be replaced with SQL/NoSQL layer to allow for battle tested performance and data management
- As far as the spec is concerned, nearest stop wasn't required. However can be calculated just as easily using distance formula

## Getting start

### Run on Docker

#### Prerequisites

- `Docker >= v17.3.1`

```
# run dev container in background, remove -d to run in foreground
docker-compose up -d transport-app-dev

# run prod container in background, remove -d to run in foreground
docker-compose up -d transport-app-prod

# stop container running in background
docker-compose stop <name>
```

### Run locally

#### Prerequisites

- `Node >= v8.x.x`
- `Yarn >= v1.5.0` or `NPM >= 5.x.x`

```
# clone repo

git clone https://github.com/sarmadsaleem/bcgdv-transport-app

# install dependencies (replace with npm if required)

yarn

# run app

node app.js

# run tests

yarn test
```

### Tests

- `/lines` endpoint - returns current lines at the requested position

  - ✓ should return 200 for valid payload
  - ✓ should return 404 when no matching line found
  - ✓ should return 400 when validation fails

- `/lines/:linename` endpoint - returns delays for given linename
  - ✓ should return 200 for valid payload
  - ✓ should return 404 when no delay are found
  - ✓ should return 400 when validation fails
